All right,
here's where content strategy sits here.
So the goal should be shared
with the larger organization.
Our work has to ladder up to
some kind of a common goal.
Now whether or
not that means the huge company goal, or
team goals for the year,
whatever you guys have been asked to hit.
The content strategy that we define
has got to ladder up to that.
It has to make a difference there, okay?
Content strategy also needs
to provide a constraint.
So it will define what direction
the content will and will not take.
Objectives are the content related
outcomes the team has to work to achieve.
And then the tactics are activities and
tools that we're gonna
undertake to achieve it, okay?
Here's why I talk about this,
especially with marketing folks.
A lot of times people, you guys familiar
with this idea of content marketing?
Content marketing is where you
create a bunch of content and
then you promote it in
the hopes that people will
feel loyalty towards your brand and
buy it and recommend it to others.
Okay, there's been a ton of hype
around this over the last six or
seven years or so.
And yes.
>> Can you give an example?
>> Yes, I can,
I will give an example of the content
marketing that we do at Brain Traffic.
So we at Brain Traffic produce
blog posts every other week.
We are launching a podcast.
We do talks and publish our slides.
And we do conferences and
all of these, we're creating content
to position ourselves as a leader
in the content strategy industry.
We will work to promote that content.
We use Twitter, we use Facebook,
we use LinkedIn, we use email newsletters.
So we're promoting that content that
we create, so that's content marketing.
It's also, it's born out of brand
publishing, which is really all it is.
But then there was the marketing
pundits sort of latched on to it.
They were like,
everybody should do content marketing.
I'm talking toilet paper companies
should do content marketing.
Every industry,
they were like this is a mandate.
This is the only kind of marketing left,
everybody needs to do it.
And that is, I don't mind
the concept of content marketing,
especially because we do it.
I do mind the idea that it should be
a mandate for every organization.
And then that's where it
comes back around to this.
A lot of people mistook content
marketing as a strategy.
So they would say, okay,
our goal is to increase revenue by 5%.
And our strategy is to
do content marketing, so
that we can help to reach that goal.
When in reality, the idea of doing content
marketing is a lot more tactical, right?
Where we can say,
we're gonna start publishing content
on a regular basis as an objective.
And the content marketing activities
themselves are very tactical, right?
And so what happens is that we have
toilet paper companies publishing
dumb content that doesn't,
like five ways to store your toilet paper.
This is real, I just presented on this
at South by Southwest, it's really true.
So we want to be really, really
careful that we are, or for example,
A website will say, we want to really lead
with our product descriptions.
And then that it's going to be our goal
is to get as many products descriptions
upfront and in as few clicks as possible.
I mean, I'm just making this up,
this is kind of dumb.
But that's actually a very tactical
decision where the strategy has been
to start with us and
not with user needs, necessarily.
Because we haven't asked our
users what they want and
how they would prefer to kind
of navigate through our site.
And what their top tasks
are as they get there.
We put our own needs first, okay?
All right, so
we're gonna start digging into
some of the tactics within
content strategy now.
Some of the tactical activities that
we undertake in order to achieve
strategic objectives.
All right, any questions before we start?
Actually, I'd like to open it up for
a little bit right now,
just to sort of general questions.
So I know we had kind of a general
question from the team around your own
content strategy.
I think that we had a question here.
So do you want to start
with your question?
>> Sure.
>> I mean,
this is just open to stuff that you guys
have maybe been thinking about about your
own projects or organizations.
Or let's take five to ten minutes to
kind of just take general questions.
>> So my question is that a lot
of this feels very geared towards
text based content,
maybe even image content.
But a lot of what we do on the web now
is beyond that, either audio or video or
even further, it can be more interactive.
And I'm kind of wondering how that would
fit into a lot of what you're talking
about.
Especially because then it feels like
the content itself is questionable.
I mean, to write a paragraph about us,
that's one thing, but to do an interactive
slideshow to tell about us, that feels
like then you've got two hurdles to cross.
Not only will it meet your objectives,
but also, will it work?
>> Yep.
>> So just any thoughts on that?
>> I would love to use interactive
timeline of yout organization under
About Us as an example.
I actually use that a lot
almost as a joke, right?
Because what happens is we
fall in love with the format.
We fall in love with, ooh, we can do
this now because it's the web, right?
And so the question is, in this instance,
we need to be sure that form
is following function, okay?
So in this instance, if I as the user
going to go to the About Us section.
Likely, I have, again,
I'm just making this up, but
I'm kind of one of three personas.
I am somebody who's interested
in applying for a job.
I am a new customer who
just wants to see what is this company all
about, or what is this website all about.
Or I am potentially an investor who
wants to know who is looking for
stock information, or whatever.
In all three of those instances
those personas have very specific
things they want to do.
I want to decide whether or
not to buy something from this company.
not to invest in this company.
I want to decide whether or
not to apply for a job with this company.
And so it's our job as content
strategist to ensure that
the content that they're looking for is
there in a way that they are expecting it.
Remember we talked about content designed
in a way that they're expecting it and
in a way that is easy for them to consume.
So for example, if I think about
the number of job searches or
research that's done on mobile, right?
Is an interactive timeline with something
that you can drag that changes,
sort of the graphics or the imagery or
it launches video or whatever,
is that the best thing for us to deliver
to help them learn more about us?
If it is a potential shareholder, right,
do we need to have 16 videos documenting
all of our most recent shareholder updates
or meetings that they have to dig through?
Or is it appropriate to have one that
provides a three minute overview
of the company and past share
performance and word from the CEO?
I mean that there's all
these different functions
that we need to identify
as being meaningful and
useful before we can determine
how we're gonna make them usable.
So a lot of times I'll get
questions like where do you
think video should fit
into a content strategy?
And my question back is always,
well what is it that you're
trying to do and for whom?
So in my opinion,
content strategy is absolutely a function
to help us decide when and where to use
some of these extraordinary tools and
opportunities that we have available
to us now in 2018 and beyond.
But the technology is
almost never the thing.
>> Right, I mean,
you gave a lot of good, bad examples but
in New York Times I think there's
a wonderful example of using it.
>> They do.
>> When there's a an earthquake
to show the damage,
they have a slider that you
can see the scene before and
the scene after the earthquake
in Japan many years ago.
I remember just seeing
the shoreline change,
that just felt like that told the story so
much more than reading about it.
>> Absolutely.
>> And even more than a before and
after shot.
So to me, I totally agree with you
that it's like does it make sense.
Because there's that desire to go the
bells and whistles because it's brand new.
One of my pet peeves is how many companies
actually have a commercial from TV on
their website.
>> Sure.
>> Who wants to watch a commercial?
I don't want to watch it when it's on TV,
why would I want to watch it there?
>> Yeah.
>> Some people think it is worthwhile,
but.
>> Well in that, I think a lot of
times what we see is people like,
I have content.
>> Yes.
>> I have content,
I'm gonna put it on my site.
>> Which goes into the other thing
I asked about, about quantity.
That in a way, it's like,
well, let's pad this out with,
that's something I've
encountered a lot of times too.
>> That's right.
>> But if that makes sense,
is it useful and
does it actually help tell the story?
>> And the two examples that you gave
from the New York Times, absolutely.
Form followed function,
people want to see how bad it was.
Well, here's a gorgeous, amazing,
shocking way to show how bad it was.
What else?
>> Just maybe a general kinda overall,
I see this happen a lot.
Where the tech person goes to the designer
and says, we need to design this thing.
And the designer's like,
well, what am I designing?
Or the tech person and
the CEO or whatever are like,
to the designer, what am I designing?
And then the conversation needs
to go back to the content first.
And so it's like educating
the tech side that like, hey,
look, it's got to start with the content.
It's got to start with the copy first,
and then that can be the source of truth.
So I'm excited about the artifacts that
you're kind of talking about the tools.
Because we can apply that and
say okay, well, where's x artifact?
Or where's the source?
Because then that can be what the designer
can actually design something.
>> Yep.
>> In this case.
>> It really is therapeutic actually.
>> [LAUGH]
>> I told you, yeah.
[LAUGH]
>> It's content therapy.
But I feel like that I
just see that a lot.
Where the tech person's like,
just make it happen and no,
you need to in our case, Christopher is
a lot of the source of truth for this.
He puts together the content and
then that is the source of truth,
the material the copy.
And then that the designer can
take the intent of the copy and
the content and actually design
something that carries that through,
carries that messaging through
verses like the tag icon.
Hey, where is the design,
I need to build this.
It's like well, we kind of need it,
walk before you run.
>> I had a variation of that,
except what I usually encountered is just
make it pretty, which is even worse.
Here's the content, it's just text on
a screen, just make it pretty, with no
concern for anything, just design and-
>> Yeah.
>> That's just infuriating.
[LAUGH]
>> Yeah, it's funny is that I still
run into that with my designer,
where I'm just like,
I just want to announce this one thing.
Why can't you just,
let's just make it attractive.
I mean, after I've been working
with him for nine years,
he wants to throttle me every time.
And so it's an easy thing to slip into.
But it is, I think, on the flip side, it's
like designers coming to the writer or
to the content person and saying,
I have some boxes for you to fill.
Can you replace this lorem ipsum?
It's the same thing,
we're both looking for a shared purpose.
And I have some documents in here that
we're gonna talk about later that sort of
help identify what that
purpose of the thing is.
Because it is that question, why, that we
come back to over and over and over again.
>> I have a question.
>> Sure.
>> I'm not sure if this is the proper time
for the question or not, but I was just
amazed looking over all the goals that
are associated with kind of strategy.
How much is this relates to
governance in the organization and
how much that kind of takes over,
it almost takes over an organizations
development period, I guess.
And getting things done,
those two relate to each other
in content strategy hearings?
>> Yeah, sure I mean, and we'll talk about
content governance a little bit as well.
But again, the idea of content governance
is not top down bad content police,
you will do this, right?
I really talk about governance as sort
of a shared framework within which
everybody can make smarter decisions.
So a lot of times our artifact for
content governance is
a content playbook that includes things
like that vision mission goals framework.
And the different tools that everybody
uses to create or plan for content.
For example, an audit,
worksheets and so on.
But that framework really can show,
these are the values and the articulated
goals and the strategy and so
on that we've used to make choices about
how we're gonna do content moving forward.
So I think that it really does matter and
can matter so
that people aren't necessarily like, well,
you've made this arbitrary rule for me.
And that it seems weird and not like it's
respecting my work at all [LAUGH] right?
And then that comes back
around to the very beginning.
Before we make any decisions to make
sure that everybody feels heard so
that decisions that are being made are in
the context of the constraints and
realities of everybody's job.
Okay, what other questions?
Anything online?
No, I've answered everything.
Brilliant, okay.